Add Genre and language article (#3468)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Beatmaps/Genre_and_language/en.md

---
tags:
  - genres
  - languages
  - metadata
---

# Genre and language

> ![A screenshot of source, genre, language, and tags on a beatmap page](img/beatmap-info.png "Genre and language are listed on beatmap pages.")

Reviewer: Could be better to use a screenshot with an actual language like English etc. in it imo, having "Instrumental" on the cover for languages seems a bit off

> [Beatmaps](/wiki/Beatmaps) submitted to the website have **genre** and **language** fields to help categorise songs. They default to `Unspecified` and `Other` respectively, and can be edited by mapset owners, [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team) members, and [Global Moderation Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Global_Moderation_Team) members.

Reviewer 2: might want to add a detail which explains that once a map got Ranked/Loved the mapset owner loses their power to modify the Genre and Language settings in their beatmap

something like

> (...) and can be edited by [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team) and [Global Moderation Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Global_Moderation_Team) members. Furthermore, mapset owners are also able to set the genre and language of their own beatmaps as long as the said beatmap's status is either WIP, Pending, or Graveyarded.

> [Beatmaps](/wiki/Beatmaps) submitted to the website have **genre** and **language** fields to help categorise songs. They default to `Unspecified` and `Other` respectively, and can be edited by [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team) and [Global Moderation Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Global_Moderation_Team) members. Mapset owners are also able to set the genre and language of their beatmaps as long as the beatmap's status is WIP<!-- TODO: link -->, [Pending](/wiki/Beatmaps#pending), or [Graveyard](/wiki/Beatmaps#graveyard).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Beatmaps](/wiki/Beatmaps) submitted to the website have **genre** and **language** fields to help categorise songs. They default to `Unspecified` and `Other` respectively, and can be edited by [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team) and [Global Moderation Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Global_Moderation_Team) members. Mapset owners are also able to set the genre and language of their beatmaps as long as the beatmap is in the WIP<!-- TODO: link -->, [Pending](/wiki/Beatmaps#pending), or [Graveyard](/wiki/Beatmaps#graveyard) categories.
```

the website refers to pending/graveyard/wip etc as Categories so this should be kept consistent.

Genre and language have no function in the game, but will be available as search options in osu!lazer<!-- TODO: link me -->.

## Beatmap listing

![The available filters on the beatmap listing](img/beatmap-listing.png)

The [beatmap listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets) has filters available for genre and language in the `More Search Options` dropdown.

## List of genres

> | Genre | Traits of applicable songs |

Reviewer: Think a more natural order could be used for this list, regular users can't see the dropdown for genres.
Would move non-genres to the bottom and keep Unspecified + Other, Anime + Video Game next to each other.

Reviewer 3: Eh, it's the same order that's used on the website for the search filter, so the current way seems fitting enough

Author: not changed^

| :-- | :-- |
| Unspecified | No songs are applicable. This genre is a placeholder until a proper one is set. |
| Video Game | Made for or made popular by a video game. This is also used for arrangements and remixes of those songs. |
| Anime | Made for or made popular by an anime or similar medium. |
| Rock | Mostly focusing on guitars, drums, and bass, typically "built on a foundation of simple unsyncopated rhythms" and characterised by "live performance and a focus on serious and progressive themes" ([*Rock music* on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock_music#Characteristics)). |
| Pop | Prominent in pop culture, and composed to be catchy by use of simple structure and repeated choruses or melodies. |

> | Other | Not belonging in the other genres. |

Reviewer: Could make this "Not belonging to any of the listed genres" ? Is more specific to this listing that way imo

| Novelty | Comical or unusual. In osu!, Vocaloid tracks are also put under this genre. |
| Hip Hop | "Stylized rhythmic music that commonly accompanies rapping," sometimes "sampling beats or bass lines from records" ([*Hip hop music* on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hip_hop_music)). |
| Electronic | Composed digitally or with electronic instruments. |

## List of languages

- English
- Chinese
- French
- German
- Italian
- Japanese
- Korean
- Spanish
- Swedish
- Instrumental

> - Other (including songs with many prominent languages)

Reviewer: many -> multiple, something evenly split between just 2 languages would probably be categorized here too, so using 'many' seems off
